.\"
.TH show_keys 1  13-Sep-2006  "DRMS MANPAGE" "DRMS Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
show_keys \- DRMS List keyword contents for a DataSeries

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBshow_keys [-aklpqr] \fRds=\fR<recordset query> \fB[n=\fRnrecords] \fB[key=\fR<keylist>\fB] [seg=\fR<segmentlist>\fB]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Show_keys lists keywords and/or segment filenames from a JSOC dataseries.  It can optionally list the full path
to the record direcory in SUMS.

.SH FLAGS
.IP \fB-a\fR 20
Select all keywords
.IP \fB-k\fR 20
List keywords and values one per line, otherwise use table format
.IP \fB-l\fR 20
Just list all series keywords and descriptions, then exit
.IP \fB-p\fR 20
Show the StorageUnit path for the record, as part of segment file if seg= specified.
.IP \fB-q\fR 20
Quiet - omit the header line listing keyword names
.IP \fB-r\fR 20
Show the absolute record number as the first "keyword"

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fBds=<recordset_query>\fR 20
The recordset query specifies a data series and set of records to list.
It may be just a series name, in which case the entire series is used, or it
may have one or more record specifier clauses in square brackets.
This parameter is required.  If no record specifier part "[...]" is given then n=recs must be present.
.IP \fBn=<record_count>\fR 20
n specifies the maximum number of records to show.  I n<0 it is the count from the
end of the selected recordset.  Thus if no "[...]" record spec is given and e.g. n=-1, the last
record in the dataseries will be shown.  Similarly if n=1 only the first will be shown.
.IP \fBkey=\fI{key0[,key1[...]]}\fR 20
A comma separated list of keywords to examine. If no key list is specified,
all keyword values in the selected record set will be reported.
If the "-a" flag is used, all kwywords will be selected and the "key=" argument will be ignored.
.IP \fBseg=\fI{segment_list}\fR 20
Comma separated list of segment names for which the associated filename will be shown.
.PP
\fIshow_keys\fR will simply list all series keywords and exit if the -l flag is set.
Otherwise, it will
go through the recordset and, for each record, print a line of tab-delimited
values for the selected keywords and segments.  
If the "-p" flag is present the full path for the segment files will be given if
any segments are requested, or if no segments requested then the full path of the storage unit for the record will be shown.
The -q flag makes the output convenient for capture for use by another
program.
.PP
If the \fB-k\fR flag is set the listing will be one \fIkeyword=value\fR pair per
line.  A comment line will preceed the keywords for each record giving the
record specification query that will produce that record.

.SH BUGS
The program will fail if called with the \fB-p\fR flag or if a \fIfile
\fRparameter is specified, and if there are no data segments associated with
the requested data series.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B retrieve_file(1)
.R <drms_query(1)>
.R <describe_series(1)>
